Mohammad Kazim Zaidi
--------------------

I'm a full stack web developer based in Greater Noida West (adjacent to Delhi), India.

I love to develop pragmatic solutions for complex problems and design maintenable systems from scratch.

main ingredients of my magic sauce: tea, ruby, rails, *.js


About me
--------
At present I'm leading a team of developers at JiffyShirts.com, which is leading online reseller of
blank imprintable clothing, mostly shirts. I mostly lead projects around search and product discoverability, but also around price automation and i18n. I've been working on some awesome projects recently for the crafters & designers community.


Work History
------------
Before this, I worked for 5amily, an online gift store that sells shirts, mugs and bags customized to people's names and interests. I worked with 5amily (pronounced family) for around 9+ years.

Around 2007-08, I worked with ValueMax solutions for around 7 months, and helped them build two products - Coupons4Me, which was a coupon aggregator, and Spendwrite, a yelp-like site that would host user reviews for local businesses.

During my college days, I was hired by CivicSpace USA as a Summer Training Intern, where I worked on some ecommerce related Drupal modules. Drupal is nice.

I majored in Computer Science from JMI, New Delhi in the year 2009.


Experience
----------
Technical Lead Manager at JiffyShirts.com
December 2017 - Present (5+ years)

Senior Web Developer at 5amily.com
March 2008 - November 2017 (~ 9.5 years)

Web Developer at ValueMax Solutions
Oct 2007 - Mar 2008 & Jun 2007 (7 months)

Summer Training Intern at CivicSpace USA (Drupal)
Aug 2006 - Sep 2006 (2 months)


Education
---------
Bachelor of Technology (Computer Science)
Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi
2005 - 2009 (4 years)

Senior Secondary - Aligarh Muslim University
2002 - 2004 (2 years)

Contact Me
----------
Greater Noida West, adjacent to Delhi, India
phone +91 9718 379 014
skype kazim.zaidi57
email kazim@kazim.dev
web https://kazim.dev
github http://github.com/kazimzaidi
linkedin http://linkedin.com/in/kazimzaidi


Things I Built
--------------
a Rails-based custom ecommerce backend, with ember.js (and later riot.js) powered frontend, with stripe and paypal as payment options, an extensible coupon creator, upsells, shipment tracking and reviews

a complete product for crafters to manage their crafting projects from blanks to finished goods

complex product search and sorting that considers dynamic factors like stock, availability

highly configurable platform to run parellel sales (in Solidus) of different types

extended Solidus ecommerce store to support multiple countries

a comprehensive MIS integrated with Google Analytics and Facebook APIs that would report campaign performances using order attribution.

an internal Facebook Ads and Creatives Creator integrated with product catalog.

ruleset-based engine that controls running adsets based on editable rules that increase or decrease budgets and close down ads based on their performance

a Facebook comments monitoring system that'd automatically reply to people's comments with products customized with their names.

a system of customizable html-based arts, which would generate a huge range of designs based on people's names and passions, and dynamically place those designs on products such as mugs and shirts.

a cacheable system of designs with their previews on multiple products by using SHA signatures to avoid redundant processing

an extensible bot messaging platform that'd parse and execute conversation scripts with Facebook Messenger users, with complete reporting.

app deployment on AWS EC2, with RDS, together with Cloudfront/S3 integration for assets

an in-house email marketing platform that'd allow to pick products and schedule them for Intercom-based mails every week -- lets write email templates using Handlebars, and an MIS to track email campaigns.

different caching strategies to optimize the site performance for different types of pages

onsite SEO, using all white hat techniques, and modern things like Google Rich Snippets and Google Products etc.

an Activity Logger to inspect user activities on site

a complete family tree platform that allows users to create family trees, collaborate, invite relatives, perform tree mergers, identify and remove duplicates, manage events, identify celebrities within family and so on.

a granular permission system that lets users choose who can see what -- and a wiki system for deceased and inactive relatives in the family tree

family tree charts generator -- descendant and ancestor charts -- extensible with different designs

a news digest that'd aggregate family news and prepare newsletters from the viewpoint of recipient

a system to run contests and giveaways

an HTML5 media uploader that lets you upload multiple images (or grab them from Facebook albums), crop and scale each of them individually -- all in the browser pre-upload

affiliate sale tracking and attribution

a system to automatically build passion and product-based Facebook Audiences based on triggers

an in-house site blog, and blog editor that'd parse links for meta etc.

bundle products that are made by combining individual ones -- and their image generation

a collaborative greeting card editor that friends sign (and write messages on) for a single recipient

Freebase integration for worldwide places data -- later we used Google Autocomplete Places for this

a referral system that rewards people who refer others to our products
